packages/website/pages/docs/installation.mdx, before:

import Callout from 'nextra-theme-docs/callout';

# Installation

## Minimal setup

1. `npm install next-intl`
2. Add the provider in `_app.js`.

```jsx
import {NextIntlProvider} from 'next-intl';

export default function App({Component, pageProps}) {
  return (
    <NextIntlProvider messages={pageProps.messages}>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </NextIntlProvider>
  );
}
```

3. Provide messages on a page-level.

```js
// pages/index.js
export async function getStaticProps({locale}) {
  return {
    props: {
      // You can get the messages from anywhere you like. The recommended
      // pattern is to put them in JSON files separated by language and read
      // the desired one based on the `locale` received from Next.js.
      messages: (await import(`../../messages/index/${locale}.json`)).default
    }
  };
}
```

4. Make sure you have [internationalized routing](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/i18n-routing) set up or alternatively provide an explicit `locale` to `NextIntlProvider`.
5. Use translations in your components!

<Callout>
  Have a look at [the minimal setup example](/examples/minimal) to explore a
  working app.
</Callout>

## Further setup (recommended)

While the above mentioned setup is typically sufficient to use `next-intl` in your Next.js app, there are a few additional steps that are recommended:

1. If you're using TypeScript you can take advantage of autocompletion and type safety for message keys by [setting up a type for your messages](/docs/usage/typescript).
2. Based on the features you need and the browsers you support, you might have to provide [polyfills](https://formatjs.io/docs/polyfills).
3. If you're formatting dates and times, a [time zone should be configured](/docs/usage/configuration#time-zone). By default, dates are formatted according to the time zone of the environment, which can lead to markup mismatches if the server and the user are located in different time zones. By supplying the `timeZone` explicitly, you can ensure that dates and times are rendered the same way on the server as well as the client.
4. If you're formatting relative dates and times, a [global value for `now`](/docs/usage/configuration#global-now-value) can be useful. This ensures that the server and client will render the same markup. Especially if you use caching for the responses of the server, the likelyhood of mismatches increases.
5. To achieve consistent date, time and number formatting, it might be useful to set up [global formats](/docs/usage/configuration#global-formats) which ensure consistent formatting across the app.

Commit message:

docs: Add runtime requirements & polyfills page [skip ci]

packages/website/pages/docs/installation.mdx, after:

import Callout from 'nextra-theme-docs/callout';

# Installation

## Minimal setup

1. `npm install next-intl`
2. Add the provider in `_app.js`.

```jsx
import {NextIntlProvider} from 'next-intl';

export default function App({Component, pageProps}) {
  return (
    <NextIntlProvider messages={pageProps.messages}>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </NextIntlProvider>
  );
}
```

3. Provide messages on a page-level.

```js
// pages/index.js
export async function getStaticProps({locale}) {
  return {
    props: {
      // You can get the messages from anywhere you like. The recommended
      // pattern is to put them in JSON files separated by language and read
      // the desired one based on the `locale` received from Next.js.
      messages: (await import(`../../messages/index/${locale}.json`)).default
    }
  };
}
```

4. Make sure you have [internationalized routing](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/i18n-routing) set up or alternatively provide an explicit `locale` to `NextIntlProvider`.
5. Use translations in your components!

<Callout>
  Have a look at [the minimal setup example](/examples/minimal) to explore a
  working app.
</Callout>

## Further setup (recommended)

While the above mentioned setup is typically sufficient to use `next-intl` in your Next.js app, there are a few additional steps that are recommended:

1. If you're using TypeScript you can take advantage of autocompletion and type safety for message keys by [setting up a type for your messages](/docs/usage/typescript).
2. Please check the [runtime requirements](/docs/usage/runtime-requirements-polyfills) and optionally provide polyfills.
3. If you're formatting dates and times, a [time zone should be configured](/docs/usage/configuration#time-zone). By default, dates are formatted according to the time zone of the environment, which can lead to markup mismatches if the server and the user are located in different time zones. By supplying the `timeZone` explicitly, you can ensure that dates and times are rendered the same way on the server as well as the client.
4. If you're formatting relative dates and times, a [global value for `now`](/docs/usage/configuration#global-now-value) can be useful. This ensures that the server and client will render the same markup. Especially if you use caching for the responses of the server, the likelyhood of mismatches increases.
5. To achieve consistent date, time and number formatting, it might be useful to set up [global formats](/docs/usage/configuration#global-formats) which ensure consistent formatting across the app.
