docs/pages/blog/index.mdx, before:

import CommunityLink from 'components/CommunityLink';

# next-intl blog

Failed attempts at writing docs that somehow turned into blog posts.

<div className="flex flex-col gap-4 py-8">
  <CommunityLink
    href="/blog/translations-outside-of-react-components"
    title="How (not) to use translations outside of React components"
    date="Apr 21, 2023"
    author="By Jan Amann"
  />
</div>

## Community links

<div className="flex flex-col gap-4 py-8">
  <CommunityLink
    href="https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2023/03/internationalization-nextjs-13-react-server-components/"
    title="Internationalization in Next.js 13 with React Server Components"
    date="Mar 16, 2023"
    author="By Jan Amann for Smashing Magazine"
    target="_blank"
    type="article"
  />
  <CommunityLink
    href="https://www.thisdot.co/blog/next-js-adding-localization-with-next-intl"
    title="Next.js: Adding Localization with next-intl"
    date="Jul 28, 2021"
    author="By Morgan Worrell for This Dot Labs"
    target="_blank"
    type="article"
  />
  <CommunityLink
    href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uDXyk1ZgLK0"
    title="Internationalization (i18n) in NextJS apps using next-intl"
    date="Jun 28, 2021"
    author="By Dillion Megida"
    target="_blank"
    type="video"
  />
</div>

Commit message:

docs: Link to ButterCMS article [skip ci]

docs/pages/blog/index.mdx, after:

import CommunityLink from 'components/CommunityLink';

# next-intl blog

Failed attempts at writing docs that somehow turned into blog posts.

<div className="flex flex-col gap-4 py-8">
  <CommunityLink
    href="/blog/translations-outside-of-react-components"
    title="How (not) to use translations outside of React components"
    date="Apr 21, 2023"
    author="By Jan Amann"
  />
</div>

## Community links

Resources on `next-intl` created by and for the community.

<div className="flex flex-col gap-4 py-8">
  <CommunityLink
    href="https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2023/03/internationalization-nextjs-13-react-server-components/"
    title="Internationalization in Next.js 13 with React Server Components"
    date="Mar 16, 2023"
    author="By Jan Amann for Smashing Magazine"
    target="_blank"
    type="article"
  />
  <CommunityLink
    href="https://buttercms.com/blog/nextjs-localization/"
    title="Next.js Localization: How to Build a Multilingual Website with next-intl"
    date="Nov 4, 2021"
    author="By Nirmalya Ghosh for ButterCMS"
    target="_blank"
    type="article"
  />
  <CommunityLink
    href="https://www.thisdot.co/blog/next-js-adding-localization-with-next-intl"
    title="Next.js: Adding Localization with next-intl"
    date="Jul 28, 2021"
    author="By Morgan Worrell for This Dot Labs"
    target="_blank"
    type="article"
  />
  <CommunityLink
    href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uDXyk1ZgLK0"
    title="Internationalization (i18n) in NextJS apps using next-intl"
    date="Jun 28, 2021"
    author="By Dillion Megida"
    target="_blank"
    type="video"
  />
</div>
